---
tags:
  - daily
  - note
year: "2024"
---
## Tasks

## trying

## thoughts

`mechanism: n. 机制，方法`

`rust` `Homu` maybe is a good `reference` for `kernel` develop.
`cargo script` may be a useful method to help rust developer to write tools. But this is not a stable features, we should to read unstable documentation to check the newest syntax.


Abount `polyhal`, We can write the consts into `polyhal` `consts.rs` file, and then use `macro` to `use` these `consts`. like `rust-sel` `root-task`, it can set dynamic `boot_stack_size`.

`rust-sel4` `packages`.

##### `sel4-platform-info`
generate `gen.rs` through `support/platform_gen.yaml` file, and generate the code like this.

```rust
pub const PLATFORM_INFO: PlatformInfo<u64> = PlatformInfo {
	memory: #memory,
	devices: #devices
}
```

`support/platform_gen.yaml` format:
```
devices:
- end: 0x2000000
  start: 0x0
- end: 0x80000000
  start: 0x2200000
- end: 0x8000000000
  start: 0x17ff00000
memory:
- end: 0x17ff00000
  start: 0x80200000
```

##### `sel4-kernel-loader`

like `elfloader`, it init the platform and enter to kernel. The kernel will receive the arguments like this.
```rust

/// user_image is user app

sel4_cfg_if! {
	if #[sel4_cfg(MAX_NUM_NODES = "1")] {
		// kernel entry the the kernel entry point.
		(kernel_entry)(
			// user_image phys range start
			ui_p_reg_start,
			// user image phys range end
			ui_p_reg_end,
			// user image phys to virt offset.
			pv_offset,
			// user_image virt entry
			v_entry,
			// device tree binary phys address
			dtb_addr_p,
			// device tree binary size
			dtb_size,
		)
	} else {
		(kernel_entry)(
			ui_p_reg_start,
			ui_p_reg_end,
			pv_offset,
			v_entry,
			dtb_addr_p,
			dtb_size,
			hart_id,
			core_id,
		)
	}
}
```

`add-payload` will add make the `kernel`, `app` and `dtb` as a bundled `elf` file, this file will be loaded as kernel and remap by kernel.

##### `sel4-render-elf-with-data`

This crate is used by `sel4-kernel-loader-add-payload` to generate `bundled` `elf`.

##### `sel4-logging`

`sel4-logging` is the `wrapper` of the `log` `crate`.

##### `sel4-runtime-common`

This crate contains the `_start` function and some function like `ctor(init_array)`, `tls_init` and `unwinding`.

##### `sel4-sync`

This crate contains a simple `mutex` implementation.

##### `sel4-test-harness`

This crate is used for testing.

##### `sel4-rustfmt-helper`

This crate is also a wrapper `crate`, it contains the `format` function based on the `rustfmt` binary.

##### `sel4-root-task`

This crate help user to define a valid root-task. contains the `entry` and `global_allocator`.

`global_allocator` is `StaticDlmallocGlobalALloc`, using the `GenericRawMutex<IndirectNotificationMutexSyncOps<fn() -> sel4::cap::notification>>` as sync lock.

`#[root_task]` can specific the `heap size`.

##### `sel4-one-ref-cell`

This crate contains a `RefCell` implementation named `OneRefCell`.

##### `sel4-hal-adapters`

contains a `SerialDriver` and `smoltcp` definition.

##### `sel4-atomic-ptr`

This crates is similar like `atomic` crate and `core` crate functions.

#### Key crates

1. `sel4`
2. `sel4-panicking`
3. `sel4-shared-ring-buffer`
4. `sel4-capdl-initializer`
5. `sel4-async`

`api/syscall.xml` will generate the `syscall_ids.rs` in `sel4/sys/build`
`**/*.pbf` will generate the associate rust file.



The disadvantages of the `rust-sel4`:
1. Config mechanism. May be use `kbuild` tool will improve its usage. Prepare the config file and pass to `rustc` before building instead of reading the config in the build progress.
2. 